for a guy who doesn't talk to his dad
for four years or five years or six
years
dad is dying of lung cancer you walk in
he says i'm proud of you
what does that guy deserve
how's it going man uh it's going good
it's going good i
i actually haven't done one of these
discord calls like this in a while so
okay perfect now we're good
can you just uh start off by telling us
a little bit first of all thanks for
coming on stream today
um and and can you just tell so i i
understand that actually you have a fair
number of fans in our chat already
um that's cool yeah um but for the
people who don't know who you are can
you tell us a little bit about yourself
uh yeah my name is uh my name is ab
atlas i'm
a youtuber uh that's a lot of people
know me
and uh yeah 30 years old
i essentially do commentary or comedy
related videos i also work as a
full-time stand-up comedian well before
this pandemic anyways
wow and uh that's uh that's the that's
the gist of it really
that's cool so you just stand up and and
you you said you do
like commentary videos yeah so we'll
just uh
you know talk about things that may be
happening in the political sphere or
just
social commentary or sometimes we'll
just uh you know just talk about
anything really dating that's cool man
yeah yeah and um is there something can
you just tell us where people can find
you like what your youtube channel is
yeah if they just go on on youtube and
they put abba and
and preach like preaching and abbots
with one b so you don't have to make the
dancing queen references
but uh yeah yeah one b then you'll be
able to find this yeah
yeah um cool that's awesome man and so
is there something in particular you
wanted to talk about today or something
that i can help you with
yeah um essentially i guess the
focal points are like the two things i
really was hoping to cover was was
mentorship
and um loss of loved ones
and so wow those two things can overlap
a little bit but uh
but yeah oh that's actually sad if those
overlap
oh yeah um which one do you want to
start with uh we can start with lost
loved one um
i suppose my question centers around the
idea that
is the loss of you know how they they
often say like
time heals all wounds i i question
whether or not that's true for all
things and when is it
not true and so yeah that's my question
yeah so um i think you have an answer
that you suspect already so what's your
answer
um i guess it depends on
how you handle the wound i suppose well
spent
and i said i'd say the same thing so i i
think abby you know sometimes people
come on here with questions
and they expect me to give them answers
i think it's it's maybe not questions i
have so much as it is like i feel like
sometimes i'm too close to the problem
and as a result you know when you put
your hand right for your face it's
blurry
yep i feel like i can't find a way to
get enough distance to get some decent
perspective so i think it's just
um finding a space where i'm comfortable
enough to allow somebody else to be my
eyes
to to see the where i can i think that's
a beautiful way to put
what we do here um because just to kind
of clarify i think you're the one who
actually is going to have the answers
and
we're just going to try to help you see
what you already know and understand
and in short i'd agree with you that i
don't think time
in and of itself heals all wounds i
think that some things
the way that we treat the wound i think
is exactly what i'd say so some people
you know the reason that time doesn't
heal all wounds is because
they dwell in the past so it's never
they never really get time
right like the past becomes the present
and yesterday
you're living in yesterday today
and so you never really get time
and so learning how to do that can be
hard for some people it's not
you know some people it comes kind of
naturally but i think sometimes maybe
it'll help can you just tell us a little
bit about
what happened in your case and and maybe
who you lost
yeah yeah so i lost my father when i was
uh
21. so that's about nine years almost 10
years now
and um i suppose
the absence that was felt kind of never
stopped being felt
and i would have interactions with
people and i realized it was always
going to be a tender spot for me
which is why it's like a traditional
topic i avoid all together even with
people that are very close to me
um and i think just looking at that and
recognizing that it's so tender after so
long i just
kind of always had issues with it yeah
so let's start with this what's tender
about the subject for you
um just just knowing that the reality is
still there and there's nothing that be
that can be done to to to change that
and and the longing
that i have for that absence you know
being
filled or whatnot or the person in
question
is just not going to go away so i think
just kind of always knowing that and
and knowing that can't be fixed it's
just like well you know i accept that
it's gone but
or that that he's gone but um
but even though i accept it doesn't make
it any easier
yeah yeah sucks man
yeah yeah right you know i think it's
interesting because
we sort of i i nowadays everyone talks
about mindfulness
and acceptance and how acceptance is the
way forward
and and what i'm hearing you say abba is
that you know you've accepted that your
dad
is you know gone which is right but it
still hurts and that's not what you were
told
right that acceptance is supposed to
make it feel better
right and that time is supposed to feel
better but it's not
feeling better right
can you tell me about your dad yeah
um so me and my my father had a fairly
complicated relationship
uh when i was young enough my parents
ended up divorcing and then my
my father moved back to um ethiopia
and and so as a result it was like a
separation period where i didn't see him
much and then afterwards i was uh um
kind of i had to leave my mom's uh place
to go live with my dad for a number of
years in ethiopia so that's where i like
most of my child ended up happening and
then i got to
spend time with him there
and
me and my dad at the time still had a
fairly tumultuous relationship because i
think i had allegiances towards my mom
and so there was a bit of resentment
built there from some of the stuff that
she told me or
just wanting to support her was a form
of um
not supporting him so we had sure a lot
of friction over time
sounds like i'm caught in the middle
partially i think i also put myself
there to some degree well i mean
how much can a child put themselves in
that position but as much as i can
um and
looking back now as a grown-up i think
my dad did
um a commendable job to try to mend the
bridge despite all the
the friction that was there and to
be patient and to be tolerant which you
know most would say is his job so that's
fine
um but yeah i was able to live with him
for a time and he took care of things
and um
i ended up moving back to canada when i
was around
15 15 around that age my last two years
of high school
and um as a result i separated from my
dad i was back to live with my mom
and at the time i still harbored a lot
of resentment towards him obviously with
the situation
uh involving him my mother so um that
kind of built up
and kind of just remained about
four years went by turned around 1920
timeline's a little shoddy you have to
forgive me
and i got a call from my mom
saying my dad was in the hospital here
in canada which was quite a shock to me
because i hadn't heard from him in many
many years
and um and then yeah it turned out he
had like um
he had lung cancer so he had a month to
live i mean a month i think it might
have been two weeks really
and um yeah and he passed away
after those two weeks had elapsed
you'd asked me about my relationship
with them so i got a little bit lost
there you're gonna have to forgive me
yeah
okay can i digest for a moment
yeah feel free i'll take that time too
damn dude you are thoughtful was i
i was trying to just keep a straight
timeline so i kind of i feel like i
missed a lot of spots but i'll take it
no i'm blue i mean that's
no i i think you're you're thoughtful
um i also think uh we're gonna have to
so uh abba i don't i don't know how
familiar you are with kind of what we do
but so we're gonna do a couple of things
okay one is we're gonna talk a little
bit i want to help you understand a
little bit about how your mind works
and um i want you to pay attention to
this phrase that you've used a couple of
times
you'll have to forgive me
okay so help me understand
what you mean when you say that
oh i don't know if it's just a
politeness thing but uh normally when
someone asks you a question
and you kind of wander off uh if you
wander off the beaten path
uh it's just traditional to kind of ask
for forgiveness to get back on track if
you make a
i i completely agree that's normally
what it means
okay and and so what i'm kind of curious
about is
is you know there's a part of me that
just wants to fire something off which
is that i'm totally fine forgiving you
question is are you okay forgiving
yourself
um
i mean i feel like i am i don't think
i'm i'm harboring any uh
kind of resentment towards myself in
that regards okay so okay it could be
wrong
yeah well i'm just curious yeah so we'll
see so i just want you to pay attention
to that right so i want you to pay
attention
to the part of you that is apologetic
and pay attention to
whether that is just a function of
conversation and politeness because you
were raised to be a good little boy
or whether there's there's actually
something underneath that which i have
no idea because i met you like five
minutes ago so this is like where
so like like what i do is i don't i'm
not going to give you answers
about what i'm going to do is like i'm
going to we're going to you're going to
i'm going to give you maybe like a path
to go down and it's actually
your job to tell me whether you think
there's something there or not
all right um so on that note
i think if i couple that with the idea
that i'm super reluctant to discuss
whatever has happened to me with my dad
to other people
maybe there's a sense of shame that i
feel in regards to the tenderness i feel
and so when i'm talking about it and i
feel lost
i feel maybe a certain sense of shame or
um disappointing myself i guess for not
being able to manage it
better manage what um just the pain just
the just the
the
the abundance i guess of emotions that
that kind of surround the topic
you know so like if you ask me a
straight question and i feel like i'm
not able to do what i traditionally do
which is give you a straightforward
answer
i feel like it's probably maybe linked
to the problems i have with the topic
and so maybe that's why i'm apologizing
potentially yeah
yeah so so what i'm hearing there is
that you're asking for forgiveness
for not being what people expected you
to be
right you're saying i'm sorry i didn't
give you what you asked for
also what i expect to be but fair yeah
yeah okay
cool yeah i think like those two those
two tend to go together
okay right um
so can i ask a couple more questions so
that's
so i i may just point out like things to
you and we'll see if i think there may
be themes emerging here
about um let me just make a note of you
know
talking about pain when it comes up but
can i ask you a little bit more so
you said your parents got divorced when
you were young do you understand can you
help us understand by the way anything
that you don't want to answer is off
limits okay so totally cool
um and i know people say oh i'm an open
book but like you get to close the book
at any point you want
right you don't have to hold yourself to
you also don't have to apologize for
closing the book
yep um you just you get to pull the plug
at any point
so can you tell us a little bit about
what your understanding is of why your
parents got divorced
um
i don't think everything was you know of
my family uh a lot of stuff was shrouded
in mystery and
and secrecy surely um
but from what i've been able to infer in
the conversations i've had with siblings
essentially it's just um
my father was tremendously unhappy um
part of that was his own selfishness and
i think part of that was also my mom's
behavior
which uh you know hurts everyone as well
um
so i i surprised it's a mix of those two
things
and what why do you what's your
understanding of why your dad was
tremendously unhappy
um well i mean you know
my family is pretty well established uh
where we're live in ethiopia very very
well respected very well known
uh without going into too much detail
and um
obviously due to war and conflict they
left
had an arduous detour to get to canada
but you know despite being in a first
world country for a lot of people from
places like ethiopia or things like that
um it's a very
very different lifestyle they often miss
their homeland um
and so i think just the quality of life
wasn't great and then also
my mother's behavior which could be
very it could be a lot to handle at
times
and so what do you mean by that what was
a lot to handle
i think um i think due to my mom's past
i think she
has a very strong habit to project her
unhappiness
onto others and it comes out in bad ways
whether it be nagging whether it be
you know negative comments whether it be
you know just you know most forms of
toxic behavior that you can imagine
and so sometimes i can come out and it
can wear on people
around her you know i
i i for me there's a gap between nagging
and toxic
most forms of toxic behavior
yeah i i kind of think about one as like
you know like a little bit annoying and
and another is like
it depends on the frequency you know
when it's when it's a barrage
you know it's kind of like uh you know
doesn't do a lot of damage but it's
constantly hitting
what what should i sure what should what
would she say or do can you give us an
example
um i think it was just a constant
reminder that things weren't done that
things weren't done well enough that
things could be better that um unhappy
with this situation
constant complaints like it just seemed
like what was around her was never good
enough
um and i think everyone was partially to
blame
and so you just constantly heard it
what would she would she say that to you
too
she would say that to me or in front of
me or two of my siblings or
to my father so so yeah and would she
sometimes say
like would she think that you weren't
doing good enough
um well i had a weird experience so i'm
i'm i'm the
fourth child of seven so i'm right smack
dab in the middle so i kind of was able
to pass
unnoticed my life um
so i would i would hear it every now and
then but it was pretty rare i think i
heard it
at specific points in my life but not
throughout it consistently now
so it sounds like maybe your dad was
unhappy and your mom was also unhappy
and sort of blamed him for
her unhappiness yes yes
and um you said you had siblings can you
tell me a little bit about your siblings
um yeah um so
there's um three boys and
uh four girls i'm the second oldest boy
two of them are from a different wife
and so they're half siblings and uh the
rest are all from
my mom
what would you like to know about my
siblings um i'm not
it's a good question um i'm just you
know
just tell me you know sometimes people
things will pop
out about them i i guess like what yeah
what's your relationship with them like
yeah yeah um i'm not actually close to
most of my siblings
um except for my older brother the rest
of them i um
i don't speak too much at all okay
anything yeah
yeah so my older brother i'm i'm pretty
close with and we talk
you know fairly regularly and uh
the rest of my siblings not so much and
what was your older brother's
relationship with your dad like
um he also had a fairly tumultuous
relationship i think we all as children
kind of
internalize that towards her her dad
living with her mom
so yeah yeah he had a similar
relationship with him
when you say internalized what does that
mean oh just like uh
our mom's our mother's opinion of our
father
we'd internalized um and what was that
opinion
um but he was unreliable uh that he
was um selfish uh
and um yeah just generally just
just bad okay
okay and so you said they got divorced
when you were howled
probably around three four okay
and so you were in canada for how many
years before you moved to ethiopia
uh probably six seven okay and
so it sounds like your mom blamed your
dad for a lot when you were kind of
growing up
and can you help me understand um you
know once again
welcome to not answer anything why you
moved to ethiopia at the age of six or
seven
oh just uh financials i think my mom was
struggling a little bit with money
uh and so for her was easier to kind of
get her money together
and then you know instead of like
renting and being struggling with the
job she was able to buy a house and then
bring us back and have a legitimate home
okay okay so and then did you guys have
a relationship so it sounds like between
three and six or seven years for
for a period of three years you don't
really see your dad much
no and no no
and what did you what did you what
happened when you moved back to ethiopia
well i mean it was kind of weird yeah
you don't see someone and they're like
they're
oh that's your father but you don't you
don't really um
have any idea what they're like and so
you're kind of apprehensive at first
but as a child you you go where you're
told and um
yeah it was it was very like it was like
a weird transition where there was
always a lot of distance always like who
is this man
um and i think that kind of persisted
for a long time but over time
um i think i at least understood that he
was reliable
okay and so what were your interactions
with him like when you were like
you know seven eight nine
i mean they were the same that they were
like when i was like 15. i think
i think i just went from when i needed
things and um
i think he knew not to push topics
because i would probably shut down on
him
and he was just there if i absolutely
needed it
okay yeah
yeah um
okay
so i'm gonna ask you abba do you want
um do you want me to share with you some
thoughts or do you want me to ask you
more questions
i have a bunch of questions but i'm sort
of
picking out a little bit of a theme um
why don't we go with a couple more
questions and then if that theme starts
perfect
so you said that and then you started
living with him when you said you were
15.
or sorry like you lived with him or you
were just back in ethiopia at some point
i was back in ethiopia living with him
so you were living with him between like
seven and
fifteen okay and so
it sounds like if you wanted something
from him
or you needed something from him you
would
kind of you guys would sort of interact
but i'm i'm not getting a sense of
a lot of like free flowing and natural
father-son sort of interactions um
no i wouldn't say that was there
i wouldn't say that was there but there
were times where i may have needed him
to help me with something
and he would show up so i think that
would probably be the closest thing but
other than that he just provided
and made himself available when i needed
it i think i just never
grabbed the olive branch if you will how
do you feel about that
good question
i think looking back now i probably
don't feel that great about it just
knowing
yeah i think just knowing you don't get
that opportunity back
that part is unfortunate but i think i
forgive myself only because i understand
that i was a childhood
i made the decisions i did then
but yeah you know just because you
accept or you forgive yourself doesn't
make it
suck any less right so yeah sure
and what do you forgive yourself for
what i perceive to be the
i guess for for i imagine it must have
been hard for him
right um to want to be present in your
child's life and your child constantly
rejects you
in a roundabout way
i imagine that must be difficult
okay so you say
i mean that's a big pile of
self-forgiveness
and so i mean it's it's quite amazing if
you've really forgiven yourself for
constantly rejecting your dad
and causing him a lot of hurt
begs the question did i really forgive
myself
um yeah i don't know
it's a good question so let me ask you
what's painful
when you think or talk about your dad
okay well when i was
when i was 19 i ended up joining the
military
and it was at the height of like when
people were going to afghanistan and
whatnot so it was quite a lot of that
going on
and you know i come from a muslim family
and so obviously when i told my mom i
was joining she was quite disappointed
and angry
and
i think after that we hadn't spoken
almost two years but i remember going
through basic training
and even though basic training is not
the most difficult thing
um
it is a stressful thing it was very
stressful for me mostly because of the
fact that i was not used to this kind of
environment where there was discipline
and people looking over your shoulders
and all these orders that you have to
constantly file well
like you know all these different tasks
that i was just not competent at i i
struggled quite a lot to be honest with
you
i i i fixed i writed the wrongs you know
and then
and got it got it going eventually
probably by like my
second month into basic and and then i
was like really steady but
it was very difficult at first and i
remember when you're in basic you're
kind of locked into space
with with 60 other people who are
platoon mates and you go through these
rigorous training for for that period
and i think what made it extra hard for
me was during that period i had
nobody i could talk to when the day was
stressful right like people go to the
pay phones to talk and
i just didn't have any kind of support
system in that regards or people that
could be like hey man just keep pushing
and i managed to get through basic
and i did my i was in the middle of my
initial service when the
call but my father came in and i
remember going to the hospital
having not seen the man in many many
years and he was kind of frail looking
and
yeah i remember seeing him and
the first thing that he told me again
this is after i hadn't spoken to family
members in many years
the first thing he told me was that when
he heard i had joined
um
just give me a second all right
yeah the first thing he told me that is
that he was proud and i think
when i heard that um
it was hard because i immediately had to
uh
i um
i um i had to leave the room just to
just to find myself like a corn in the
hospital
i just remember um
i just remember crying a lot and i'd um
called my best friend at the time he'd
never heard me like that
i didn't know what i'd overcome me at
the time but i think looking back now i
realize that um
i think at the time i'd realized that
despite never realizing that i'd always
wanted to hear that
it's not even about the military i think
i think i always wanted to
have that and um
yeah i think that was the hard part
yeah it just hit me i guess it was like
a whole childhood i'm not having that
right so
i think that's hard about it
so so yeah that was tough for me
you know it's kind of interesting right
how tough it can be to get exactly what
you need
generally speaking when i ask people you
know if you get exactly what you need
would you consider that to be tough
generally speaking people wouldn't say
yes
i think it's because a lot of times
people don't even realize what it is
that they need
yeah i think i've just been functional
moving through life that way
and i think that moment kind of made me
realize
from the absence and it kind of showed a
light on
i think maybe just things that i didn't
know i i yearned for
you know or things i convinced myself i
didn't want
and uh yeah
so yeah
i should ask you more questions but i'm
going to give you an answer at this
point i think the reason
that you have trouble getting over the
loss of your dad is because
you lost you lost him a long time before
he passed away
right and he lost you a long time before
and so if all you're grieving is his
death
you're missing out on a big part of of
what you need to mourn
another thing that's um
um maybe this ties in i think
over the last four or five years we've
had like a lot of success and um
it's been very humbling to be able to
connect with so many people whether it
be through stand-up or
um
through this youtube stuff and one of
the many joys that i have now is to be
able to like take care of the people
around me
you know there's something that's for me
extremely fulfilling about that aspect
of my life
but oftentimes people ask me if i'm
proud and
i always think back to the moments and i
feel like
the reason why i often feel like i'm not
proud
because i think the one person that i
wanted to showcase to
that i could do it isn't around
you know i felt like i was supposed to
support my mother and then kind of prove
to my dad that i could
and i think i just i lost that
opportunity
in a way i think that's the
that's the that's a bit of the hole that
i feel
sure and the morning that i think
doesn't stop i think it's just uh you're
right about
having not been able to mourn everything
else before that
yeah i think that's a good observation
so abba is your dad proud of you
i think he yeah i think i think he was
proud of me i think
i guess i just want to show more you
know
you know despite everything my parents
gave up a lot for us and
now there's a huge part of me that wants
to be able to repay that
partially for them but i think also
partially for myself
so that they'd have to worry
so i i this is gonna sound a little bit
weird but i take
i take issue with many of the words that
you choose
so you say he was proud of you that's
not the question i asked
i asked is he proud of you
i mean i think i used the word was just
because man is dead
yep i know and i'm sure for a lot of
people there's like the idea of
afterlife where people live on through
you
i personally don't subscribe to stuff
like that i mean maybe
in a way maybe their their lessons and
their influence
you know lives on to you but i think
other day i think there's
very few things like the material
presence for me personally i'd agree
so i'd say even if you i'm not talking
about the afterlife so i i think
what we need to do is really understand
what he was saying to you that day that
he saw you in the hospital like what do
you think he was proud
of
what i become
who i was standing before
so that's why i ask in the present tense
because i i don't think he was proud of
you
just in that moment he was proud of what
you had become and he was proud of
what he knew you would be
right i think i i think he's proud of
you i mean even he's dead i'm not
talking about an afterlife or a soul or
anything like that although those
thoughts can
feelings can certainly be comforting
don't get me wrong
what i'm talking about is i i think he
saw the person i mean the person that
you
are today was what he got a glimpse of
like nine years ago
right and like you know like i don't
know do you have kids
no no i don't know
this something that honestly you may
better understand if you
you know choose to or lucky or unlucky
to have
kids one day maybe you'll understand
that like you you know what they're
gonna be
right and and in that moment there's a
part of me that says that like
he wasn't talking about just that moment
he was talking about what had come
before that moment and what was going to
come after that moment
why do you think it is that i'm unable
to believe that
i don't know why am i am i rejecting it
i don't know
i don't know yeah so so that's a good
question
it's the right question
let me just think about whether i want
to ask you what do you reject about it
you know you say parents know what their
kids are going to become
i just never felt like anybody knew i
was gonna do any of this
and i'm not here to be like oh wow look
at everything but i just
i can honestly say i don't think i've
ever had anyone
um
believe it mean that way well bro
yeah yeah i i think that
i know i know my dad showed it in that
moment but i think prior to that i just
i think i i just had never seen it
and so maybe yeah yeah i think that's
that's your answer right so like let me
let me put some context around it so i i
think
the reason you can't believe it is
because
you know just
the tiniest amount did so much for you
and you just weren't
used to that you couldn't understand
what that meant
in that moment even now you're
struggling to understand it
why is it hard for you to accept it
because it's new it's like the first
time you eat like a chili
right it's like it takes some time to
get used to things that
are new to you and what i'm hearing from
you is that you were starved like i mean
like seriously bro you got to mourn way
more than his death
and we'll get to other reasons i mean if
you want really what's going i'll just
like tell you okay like this is a shot
in the dark but
i mean i think the reason that you have
trouble accepting it is because like
if you accept it it changes a lot
for you so like
you know i mean when you say things like
i went to him only when i needed him
i shut him down i say you were put in
the middle and then you respond with
because like a kid it's funny because
you even sort of noticed this
i said like so it sounds like you got
caught in in between your parents and
then your answer is i put myself there
right and then you even catch yourself
and then you like you say afterward well
i guess you can't
really put yourself there as a kid so
like how do you understand that
like why would you say those statements
back to back
and what i'm hearing from you is a lot
of a lot of responsibility for a lot of
these situations
i've forgiven myself for continuously
rejecting my dad
for not taking the olive branch
and and what i hear in uab is like a war
between what you
understand to be true and what you feel
which is that you can't really blame a
kid but i think you blame yourself
and i think when you talk about shame
like why do people feel shame like what
and where does shame come from i think
on some level like you also feel guilt
i guess and i think the real problem is
that like
you've gotten very very used to that
feeling you've sort of like built this
version of yourself that's like positive
in spite of that but it's still a big
part of who you are
and i think if you accept that your dad
was proud of you then like
it's hard to blame yourself
which feels weird and uncomfortable and
there i i fully admit i may lose you
but like there's something weird going
on where i think like if you accept that
your dad is proud of you you
have to let go of some of that pain and
i don't think you want to
i think you like blaming yourself
for rejecting your dad
i did i did uh it's like you deserve it
yeah i did partially come to the
conclusion that i was holding on to all
this stuff because i think it was part
of my identity
um or that
i deserve it
huh
so i'll ask in a different way okay it's
gonna be a stupid question and i expect
a stupid answer but an honest one give
me whatever's in your heart and
you don't have to answer give me the
right answer
for a guy who doesn't talk to his dad
for
four years or five years or six years
dad is dying of lung cancer you walk in
he says i'm proud of you
what does that guy deserve
do you deserve to be happy
the first word that came to mind was
everything
i don't know i feel like
and uh in a weird way i feel like that
moment kind of
saved me
what did it save you from
i think it made me realize what problems
i had going on on the inside
maybe not to what degree but i think i
realized that something was really wrong
something was really missing
and um i think i sought it out in a lot
of different places
unknowingly
and uh
i think that's why i said everything i
just
i feel oddly grateful i feel grateful
oh my dude because you know as terrible
as it is to lose them that way i think
like imagine if
i'd even have that
yeah abbott this is this is complicated
dude so listen
look so i'm with you i'm glad you feel
grateful i think everything's the right
answer blew me away
to be honest i was envisioning something
else but now i'm going to share
something else with you so like here's
here's what you have to mourn right like
here's what you have to mourn is that
you can be grateful
that you're lucky that you got what you
needed
and at the end of the day for a lot of
your life
you did deserve everything but you
didn't have anyone to call
in basic
you know i think a lot of this sadness
comes from like it really comes from
loss man it comes from that you deserved
everything but you didn't get everything
all you got was barely enough
yeah i think i just accepted
even though i know it it probably hurt
me and
you know
yeah but you know also shaped me i think
i've
kind of accepted the the lack with which
i was raised
you know i think i've had to learn to
forgive my mother for what she did
but yeah i think when you speak of like
um
i i just don't even i recognize the
absence of things that were in my
childhood
but i think what i think about them i'm
like it is what it is
rather than yeah that's that's the
problem
so this is gonna sound kind of weird
okay it's completely counter-intuitive
and probably wrong
but just hear me out here so mourning is
about loss
right right yeah and so here's the crazy
thing
i think abba you've got to accept less
and so like like there's a part of me
that says that like
when you accept that you weren't given
much when you accept that you grew up
without much
you're kind of like taking that loss
away
right so in a sense in theory what
you're doing is accepting that there was
a loss
but i think actually if you really want
to mourn what you've got to do is reject
it
because you deserved everything like
it's just
it's shining through just in little
little bits
so like if you deserved everything and
that's your first answer
why on earth aren't you pissed
earth aren't you screaming to the
heavens that this is unfair and this
shouldn't happen like this that like
my dad should have been proud of me for
years and i should have had a
relationship with him
and just when things were turning around
he was taken away from me
for i think for a few reasons i think
one i think holding on to resentment
anger often times uh for me is just not
led to good places
um violence in particular i was a
violent teenager
okay i think it wasn't for the military
i probably would have landed myself in
way more trouble
i think that's one reason why i don't
want to hold on to it two
um it's i don't know forgiveness is
possible
if you don't fully go through the path
that you mentioned but i think i can't
have any form of forgiveness
if i hold on to that and three i can't
change
um what has happened in the past and so
if i cannot change it
and it only leads to me potentially
engaging in destructive behavior
and the inability to forgive those
people around me it stands to reason
that i don't want to hold on
to that idea of like i reject
and i'm angry because you know i am to
be fair
i probably if i if i wanted to go back
there and really think back on it i
could probably resurface those
experiences and
find reasons to be angry and justified
reason
but i i ask what purpose does it serve
if i can't get forgiveness
and i can't get like a real sense of
catharsis at least not one that i can
imagine
yeah so this is okay now i'm more
confident
because here's the thing right like so
so like here's here's what i'm hearing
about is you're not
letting yourself feel what you feel
because it serves no point in your head
and you wonder why you're stuck i think
if i
if i do the cost analysis benefit i feel
like there's more downsides
than i could see potential upsides i
think i can't see you
i completely agree with your cost
analysis okay
and it's not how feelings work
okay if the reason that you can't stop
mourning is because you're doing a cost
analysis of the benefits
and costs of mourning and you choose not
to do it then no [ __ ] wonder you're
stuck
uh so my question my question is how do
you mourn
so like you familiar with this these
cubular
the kubler lost grief stages this is
like psychology 101
yeah yeah something about like denial
and then denial and anger at the top
yeah and what you did my dude is skip
right past those to like acceptance
and so like that's why you're stuck bro
right you're afraid of your anger but
it's a part of you it's a part of who
you are
like there's a big difference between
not telling yourself
that [ __ ] is unfair
and saying like okay like i i should be
grateful i should be grateful
that on his deathbed my dad told me once
in my life that he's proud of me
like what the [ __ ] bro
like i appreciate that as someone who
tries to
you know get people to engender
gratitude and feel like so much resent
like people are like you know burnt out
they're resentful about life i'm with
you
i don't think it's a good idea to hold
on to resentment but i think you you got
to pick it up from time to time so that
you can put it where it belongs
like i mean if you're the dalai lama
sure
like you know being grateful that your
dad was like i'm not i'm not saying you
shouldn't be grateful for that moment
i'm not saying it isn't a powerful
moment
i'm not saying it isn't a transformative
moment but i think
you you're allowed to be angry and
you're afraid of what's going to happen
if you let yourself be angry
and that's exactly why you can't let the
anger go
and i i think that there's a part of you
yeah
i just don't i wouldn't know how to
channel it yeah how do you how do you
channel that emotion in a constructive
way
you know like if you're a football
player and you're aggressive and you got
some aggression anger like
maybe you channel it on the field right
like how would i
channel those emotions and to i guess
something good
you know yeah so i think that's that's
that's the problem is you don't channel
it into something good
okay you don't channel it right you sit
with it
okay like abba what you need to say to
yourself is like first of all like i
think you got to get angry with yourself
because i think you are anger angry at
yourself
i think i think you you blame yourself
on some level like understandably so
so i think you're halfway there like
you're kind of saying like i was a kid
right like my mom like there are all
kinds of irrational thoughts and this is
the problem is your thoughtful guy
it's your [ __ ] problem so like like
let me just
toss out a random chain of thinking to
you
okay okay so like you know if you were
resentful towards your dad like you
don't blame yourself because you were a
kid right and what do kids know
right and so he extended the olive
branch and the only time you ever like
gave him the time of day is when you
needed something from him
like holy [ __ ] like that's a bad way to
interact with another human being
yeah and you're a good dude you're a
thoughtful dude so you're like you
you've learned to forgive yourself for
that but then like there's there are
other thoughts under there
like why was i this way towards my dad
why was i robbed of this opportunity
because of my mom because she taught me
this stuff because she brainwashed me
and if it weren't for my mom if my mom
was a different person maybe i would
have had
a different relationship with my dad
and i'm not saying that that's correct
but what i'm saying is that like it
feels
healthy to me to think those thoughts
and let yourself think those thoughts to
blame
yourself to blame your mom to blame your
dad to blame a god that you don't even
believe in blame everything under the
sun
and then accept and then forgive
right that's what you need to do like
you're missing like this piece of like
my god man you need to climb on top of a
mountain and you need to scream about
how
unlucky you are and then also
recognize that you're blessed
because this is what life is man life is
not either or
right like if you look at the yin yang
there's a tiny black dot in the whites
part and there's a tiny white dot in the
black part
and so like should you be grateful like
was your dad proud of you like
absolutely should you be
[ __ ] angry that you guys were just
starting to build something and that you
got robbed dude
and that's not fair and you shouldn't
like i respect you for accepting it but
there's a part of me that says
holy [ __ ] you shouldn't have to accept
it
no one deserves a life where they have
to accept what you have accepted
and that acknowledgement needs to be
there too and i don't know if you do
that part
no i don't so that's actually
a rejection
right like what you're not accepting is
that you shouldn't need to accept so
much
and like like i get that you're like
you're thoughtful and you're
clearly resilient and you're clearly
like
forward thinking and you're about growth
and moving forward so you the last thing
you want to do is throw yourself a
[ __ ] pity party
like i would guess that you're it's very
hard for you to throw yourself a pity
party if not impossible
i just think it's unproductive exactly
right
and so that like here's here's a quick
answer for you okay
if you're stuck with something just do
the thing that you don't do
that's fair right i think i i think the
big reason why i didn't do it i think
is part of what you hit on earlier which
i think kind of built my identity
around it in some way or shape or form i
think having that removed i just
couldn't imagine
what that would be like so
yeah yeah so i and i think that that's
that's fair right so i think this is
where like
what like what you need to do ab is
integrate
not separate and like that's what you're
doing is like you're you're figuring out
like what's adaptive
and i think that's why it's hard for you
because it's been like adaptive
to be this way like you're amazing dude
went through basic training
youtuber comedian you've made something
of yourself that your dad would be proud
of
and i'm not trying to get you to cry
again i'm just saying like objectively
no no don't worry
i think i got all the tears out left for
now
you know child of immigrants like you
kind of made something of yourself and
it's amazing
and but there are all kinds of other
things like you know like you don't want
to sound like an ungrateful little [ __ ]
but like you get to be an ungrateful
little [ __ ] from time to time
and so i think what you're doing is
rejecting that part of you
like in a weird way like you're like
you're not gonna be that kid
that you probably felt like like like
you you don't want to let yourself
and we see it poking through like how
did you feel when you had no one to call
it basic training
i think i took notice of it but i think
i just tried to shut it down
there it is right right right it is what
it is
yeah i think i think it's probably like
a survival tool that probably outlived
its um use you know because i think in
short periods and in times of like
difficulty i think it's important to
have those
but i think now and especially where i'm
at and i have time to spend with my
thoughts and my ideas that's like
oh i don't need that but i still operate
underneath that mode
and uh that's i mean you keep on going
on that
track and will be switching seats real
soon
i'm serious yeah
because abby you're spot on that like
that was adaptive
and now it's maladaptive
right which is exactly what you just
explained you've understood that
huh yeah it just reminds me of like
those like those stories about like
those old war robots
who are like commissioned for one
function and the war ends and like they
have to find meaning
right and maybe you think of that yeah
that's exactly where you are i think
it's a beautiful analogy
because your life has been a war bro
yeah i mean probably probably
wins on the inside trying to be that
dramatic but i get what you're saying i
also think the other part of it is like
there's a fear of not knowing
yeah like it's there's a fear of not
knowing who's going to be on that other
side or what they look like because you
know you're used to
you're comfortable in what you know so
if what you know is conflict or what you
know is just like this adapt
you know 100 just try to adapt every
situation irrespective of like
your inner state um then that the other
side of that it's like a
uh i guess a sense of new discovery so i
think that's frightening as well
because i'm comfortable with who i am
and maybe there's just certain aspects
of that that i need to shed
i suppose yeah
all right well done sir easy
making my job easy doing all the heavy
lifting
i mean you know i mean just a couple of
those nuggets information i'm like okay
now i could see the painting a little
bit
yeah like i said at the beginning you're
thoughtful
so you're right that what you need now
is courage
and the the the war robots just a
[ __ ] brilliant analogy
dude because what is what is the role
that you have
right and like i think it all is like
ties together because what you're saying
to
me is that you've built a life where
your anger is shoved into the basement
you've built a life where like these
feelings that have been destructive in
the past
you haven't really i mean you sort of
conquered them but you sealed it away
and now what i'm asking you to do is
like open it up again and you're like
[ __ ]
yeah what if everything come and so this
is where like you got to have faith in
yourself and you
got to have courage that like you can't
you're not going to be able to mourn as
long as you have
you know deep emotions about yourself
walled off
and very practically about your dad i
just revisit i think part of the reason
that you're not done mourning yet is
because you got to mourn
when he's alive i think you've probably
done enough about when he's passed away
yeah yeah
and you gotta you know think and like
talk to your brother and maybe see a
therapist or
or do a lot of soul searching or just
turn that noggin on on top of your
shoulders to
this problem and i think you'll get
really far really fast
okay
it's a lot to think about that's good
yeah
so just quickly about mentorship yes
sorry
nope i think it's i don't think if it's
okay with you i don't think we need to
dive into it i don't think mentorship is
like
i think it's like a sorry for being
judgmental here but i think it's like a
late manifestation of like a lot of the
stuff that we're talking about
i think as you start to explore i mean
just to put it
simply i don't know if this is gonna
make sense or not but like
you know i think it's good that you
already tied together mentorship with
like loss of a loved one but i i think
it goes back to
you know even before your dad passed
away i think it goes back to basic
training
that story is powerful and that that
story tells us a lot about your
experience of life
like when you don't have someone to call
right like you said to us
they had people to tell them to
encourage them to push through
right they had people like father
figures who were like you can do it bro
i have faith in you and so i think the
mentorship conversation is about like
you know finding someone who can
but i mean i i think you gotta first
sort of grapple with that loneliness you
gotta grapple with like
there's a lot of concrete stuff about
mentorship we could talk about but i
think at the end of the day
i mean what i'm getting abba is like
you're a dude who grew up alone
yeah that's very accurate
right and and that is hard
you want to be grateful for that
no right i'd say like do you feel alone
now
and don't don't don't answer with like
whether you have friends or not i'm
asking you do you feel alone
and also a be feeling alone doesn't have
to feel bad
do you feel alone
i don't feel alone but i do feel like
there's elements in my life that are
missing
that are really important yep
you know and and you don't again it's
like one of those things you don't know
you need it to
you see it right and i remember you know
i have a friend of mine she's a she's
a work colleague if you will she's a
comedian and she's older than i am in
her late 40s and we've worked together
on comedy shows and she invited me over
for a thanksgiving dinner
so i went to her place and i remember
just sitting
at this like long table and there was
like 20 people right like all extended
family everyone's sitting
everyone does a little prayer at the
beginning and then they pass along the
stuffing and
the meats and stuff like that and
they're all talking to each other you
know fairly cordially and not in a
manner that's like
we have to keep up appearances you can
tell there's a general likeness between
like
most of the people conversing with each
other and i just i remember it so
vividly
but i was just like oh this is how like
a family's supposed to function if it's
that it's like
optimal and i i was like i'm 27
and i'm just like realizing it like that
i never
we never had family dinners you know and
it's just like the absence of things
like
you don't i don't feel alone but i also
can't recognize the absence of something
that i never had and so it's hard to
understand the weight and the impact of
that so maybe i feel more
things than i realize it's just because
it's my default it just seems like
nothingness
does that make sense yeah it makes
perfect sense i love your robot analogy
you watch star trek
you know a little uh data is uh
does he work on board the starship
enterprise yeah so he's like an android
okay and like you remind me of data
because you're kind of like you're like
a robot that's sitting at a thanksgiving
table for the first time and you're like
oh this is what all humans are supposed
to be like
yeah right and the interesting thing
about data is that like he doesn't
wake up every day and like cry because
he feels alone he's just like this is
you know so i i think abba in a sense
like
look don't get me wrong you have a lot
to be grateful for
but i think you also like missed out on
a lot dude
yeah and i think you've got to
acknowledge that
and you've got to say like it wasn't
okay and then you've got to start moving
towards it
and i think some of that stuff is going
to be like re re-engaging with your
inner demons but like you're not the
teenager that you used to be
you know you're like you're like a man
grown now like you're you've gone
through basic training you're a comedian
you're a youtuber you have a successful
professional career
you have a better relationship with your
emotions you're a man that your dad
would be proud of
and i have faith in you that like you
can handle what's in that basement
like when you were 16 and living with
your dad and full of resentment and like
being a little [ __ ]
like of course anger got the best of you
but that's not the person
that you are right now
i guess it's yeah i guess it's the
moving forward towards it part that i
think was missing for so long
but i think you kind of gave me tips on
what that could look like for me so
yeah so here's the last tip don't do it
alone
i want you to stop being a pillar lean
on someone
let someone be there for you make that
phone call because this time someone's
going to answer now you have someone i
don't care who it is
i'm sure there are people in your life
yeah yeah look at people
teach yourself how to not solve all your
own problems
i'll do that thoughts questions
reflections
very insightful
it looks like your hand isn't i'm seeing
you focused
yeah i know i feel like i got a couple
steps back and you know these are all
like ways that were floating but now i
can like i could put them on the
the campus and so it's just that was
really good for me i think
in that regards let yourself be helped
to let yourself be angry
let yourself be all the things that
you've taught yourself to not be
yeah it's funny because just the thought
of doing that makes me uncomfortable
but yeah i think that's that's why i
have to move towards it so it's good yep
good man abby you're you're you're
special dude
really uh
thank you i appreciate that there you go
learning how to take compliments too
yup see look look at how thoughtful you
are how self-aware do you meditate
not in the traditional sense but i think
i do just sit there with my thoughts a
lot
okay you want to learn the traditional
sense
sure you were saying something sorry
i was just saying like often times i
like before i go to sleep i'll just lay
my bed
and just sit with my thoughts for hours
and uh like write down ideas sometimes
and
it's good so that's like that's my
version but i'd love to learn your
version
yeah so
let me just explain just very quickly so
i think it's awesome that you do that
but that's not meditation
okay so meditation is the opposite of
what you do
which is to sit with yourself without
thoughts
okay so when you say i sit with my
there's the thoughts in the mind is the
object is the thing that you're sitting
with
it's not the sitter
does that make sense i always wondered
about that
because i felt like if you can observe
it there must be some separation
between you and it yep very good
and so that's why i just always assumed
that you're sitting with your thoughts
yep or your feelings perhaps sometimes
yep
yeah so that still means that you are
not your thoughts or your feelings
right so i think the reason that you
need to learn meditation
is because you need to learn what that
sitter is
and cultivate time with just the sitter
and the more that you cultivate time
with just the sitter
then you have no reason to fear a
particular emotion
right so so far your life it's good
you've learned this distance
on your own but you've learned that you
are not your thoughts or your feelings
and sometimes what happens is your
feelings become you
so there are times where anger takes
control and then the sitter disappears
you're not sitting with your anger
anymore
you're one with your anger
does that make sense
it's okay if it doesn't okay it makes
sense conceptually i think it's just in
practice but yeah yeah
yeah so so like practically what we're
gonna teach you how to do is
teach you how to be the sitter and then
we're gonna call up the anger and it
won't sweep you away because that's what
you're i get the sense what you're
afraid
of is that the anger is going to sweep
you away if you let it out
because that's what it's done in the
past like you mentioned you've been like
violet and stuff before
right so like in the same way as you
become a trained sitter you're gonna
learn how to like sit with that anger
and like it won't sweep you away
and you'll just it'll just be stuff that
you think about
or feel so
i i want to say i think you're going to
be gifted
meditation but i don't want to
set an expectation for you so let me say
rather than gifted
i think that you will really really
appreciate
what a meditative tradition has to offer
because some of the observations like i
don't know how to say this
abba and i don't know if this is going
to make sense but you know there aren't
many people like you
do you feel that way
uh yeah i do yeah so here's the thing
if you want to find people like you
learn to meditate
because there are going to be more
people who like kind of operate like
sort of like you do
but it's it's hard so let me just teach
you something any questions thoughts
that no no okay
let me think what am i going to teach
you
you have a drink you have a beverage
right yeah absolute water
do you have any other beverages that
you're not going to consume
i only drink water that's it okay i'm
pretty boring
no that's fine just thinking
okay
this is going to sound kind of weird
okay so i've got like a formal technique
that i'm going to teach you but
i don't feel like doing that so i'm
going to
we're going to try something it's
probably going to fail catastrophically
and then we'll resort to the formal
technique which is fine
okay because we gotta we gotta be okay
with failing catastrophically just
close your eyes
okay just like this is gonna sound weird
but just notice your existence
right so like how do you know that you
exist
you can answer it's a question it's not
rhetorical
you can take your time
my ability to observe okay
excellent see that's the right answer
okay so then what is what is it that
you're observing
um darkness
sound
okay so who is it that's that's doing
the observation
i feel like there's like a super
computer on the back and it's just
utilizing its tools
okay so the super computer
that's a good answer too so tell me
tell me about the super computer
what's the does the super computer have
a name
no good right again i haven't asked
its name okay so if you
if you ask it its name who is the you
and what is the it
i constantly feel like there's a super
computer utilizing all these tools and
then it relates the information to
yep very good so it's super computers
all the way back
okay does that make sense yes exactly
okay so then is the so is this a
supercomputer a man
it's gonna sound weird to me it's just
like it's just nothingness it's like
this darkness that's all
good good so now
we're going to teach you something right
so like will the super computer be
bothered by your anger
no will it be bothered by your
resentment
no does the super supercomputer miss
your dad
no when i ask you about your dad do you
lose the super computer
now i feel like
it its work is harder but good
excellent man yeah abby you got to do
the [ __ ] bro
so now all we're gonna do so this is the
so basically the point of meditation is
to like
sit with just the super computer so now
we're going to do something a little bit
different
so all we need to do is focus one of our
indriyas or sense organs on anything
and what we want to do so open your
eyes hold on one second
yep i can see it okay so this is what i
want you to do i just want you to look
at it
okay you can blink and stuff no big deal
just look at sort of the center
and i want you to notice now this is
where things get hard okay i want you to
look at it
and notice that you can see it but
seeing is a sense organ
okay so you can you can look
at the thing now what i want you to try
to do is have the super computer
look at the looking
so can you observe that you were looking
at something
that there is a capacity of looking
and make make the looking the object
of what you are seeing
and so in a sense you can even look at
something else so like you can look at
different parts
of the image and notice that like okay
there's a triangle in the middle so
right now i'm looking at the triangle
and then i'm looking at the petals but
irrespective of what i'm looking at
there is some kind of looking going on
and i can just watch the looking
does that make sense
is it possible that this kind of
exercise is harder with your eyes open
the reason the reason why yes
the only reason i ask is because when
you told me earlier to
focus on one thing and use the super
computer kind of observe
i try to focus on what i was feeling
and i don't know this is kind of weird
but i felt like the super computer was
just looking at fire
and the fly was building
and i felt like i was kind of observing
from outside
manifestation does that make sense yes
good so then do that
okay yeah so all you need to do is just
observe the fire do whatever the [ __ ]
you're doing whatever you're doing is
right at some point
you may want or need an alumna
alumni means support or objective
meditation but i think for now this is
fine
so here's the main takeaway so the
reason that you need to meditate is
because meditation is the
process through which the super compute
your understanding and relationship with
the super super computer grows over time
and then when you become enlightenment
all you are is the super computer 100
of the time that is what enlightenment
does
okay and so then like there is no
happiness or sadness and all things are
equal
hmm so very practically what i'd say is
if you see a therapist what i want you
to do is in the back your mind
watch the super computer and let the
super computer all these emotions and
regrets and things that you don't want
to feel
as long as you are secure in the chair
of the supercomputer
none of those things will touch you and
you can let it all out
it is when it becomes difficult to be
the supercomputer
that's what you need training for so the
closer you get to
this the greater the emotional energy
the
the more faded the super computer will
feel
and through training you can strengthen
that
okay and at some point i think you
should probably learn like formal
meditation like maybe when covet blows
over and stuff like that like go to a
class
but i think at the end of the day if you
sit with your super computer that's the
most important thing
okay yeah
thoughts questions um
i'm just grateful thank you
you're welcome you create a
created a great space for people to
um be brave and to
you know showcase that in front of other
folks and
um i think i mean i'm sure you're told
how conducive
and how how wonderful it is but for me
it's uh
even just having like witnessed some
other streams i thought it was
wonderful so thank you for that you're
very welcome
so
i have a weird response to that
let me think about how to say this
so i appreciate your appreciation
but i do not accept your gratitude
because what you need to really
understand abba
is that you were owed this
this is what you were entitled to this
is a part of the
everything that you deserve
so people come to me and they say oh
thank you for doing all this you guys
don't understand
i'm doing nothing for you that deserves
gratitude
like not towards me like this is part of
what you're owed bro
you draw short straws in life and you
get some long straws in life i'm one of
the long straws
i want you to as best as you can except
that this is just a part of what you're
given
and you can be grateful for that in a
general sense
but don't thank me
i understand the point about the long
straws but i i also have to respect the
fact that there's a manifestation of
choice
to be that long strong you know it's not
like in your absence
somebody else may have failed the void i
mean that's wishful thinking but it's
not it's not guaranteed and so
i think there has to be some measure of
gratitude for the idea that you chose to
be in that position to be able to help
folks
was i owed this i'll agree but uh well
well played sir that is the one piece of
gratitude i'm willing to accept
okay yeah yeah i agree that jesus
should be here i 100 agree with that and
i think everyone should know that
but i think there should be some idea of
like i commend you for being the person
who chooses to be that long straw for
people
yeah that i can that i that i can accept
that's what i have to accept
good i'm glad despite my desire not to
you found the one [ __ ] in my armor sir
i i commend you all right i'm flattered
i'm gonna take that to my discord and be
like i got him guys
yeah you got it got me in more ways than
one appa
wow well listen i'm uh if if it was good
for you then i'm also happy about that
um it's great for me i can tell uh yeah
yeah that was great thank you so much
man yeah you're very welcome dude so
listen good luck to you keep us posted
and um you know if you stumble or
anything like that feel free to reach
out again
okay um i may just if it's okay with you
i may think about you a little bit
after we're done oh no no it's not i
have had it and
talked to the people and uh yeah i'm
just grateful that you guys uh
let me come on to talk with you so thank
you yeah take care thanks for coming on
do you want to just tell us real quick
for people who joined lake where they
can find you and
yeah yeah on youtube you didn't go to
abba and preach and
uh i don't do nearly as much uh crying
on there but it's still a pretty
insightful stuff i hope and um
yeah if you go on youtube and you search
abba aba and
preach you know three separate words um
you'll find us
okay cool take care man cheers
that's fun man i love doing this work
it's great ah ab is good
oh man he's good